= RecordWithOperator

== Introduction

RecordWithOperator is a gem that makes your active record models to be saved or logically deleted with created_by, updated_by, deleted_by (column names can be changed).
Also it makes creator, updater, deleter association (belongs_to).

You can specify which action you want to save operator like this.

  records_with_operator_on :cerate, :update, :destroy

RecordWithOperator needs to know who is currently operating.
For that, you need to set operator through one of the following ways.

  # Every ActiveRecord object has operator= and operator.
  record.operator = current_user
  record.save

  # RecordWithOperator module has operator= and operator.
  RecordWithOperator.operator = current_user
  obj = YourModel.find(id)
  obj.attributes = some_params
  obj.save

In rails application, a nice place for setting operator whould be in filters.

Operators whould be also useful for your access control features on model's side.

The logical deletion function itself is out of this plugin's scope.
This plugin assumes that the logical deletion is kicked by record.destory.

== API Changes

:for option in find method has been removed.
(It's no use since operator is now global.)
Please set operator before search if you need operator at that timing.

Also, operator_stamps is removed.

== Installation

  ## Gemfile
  gem 'record_with_operator'

== Example

Create Note table with nessisary attributes:
class CreateNotes < ActiveRecord::Migration
  def change
    create_table :users do |t|
      t.string :body
      t.integer :created_by
      t.integer :updated_by
      t.integer :deleted_by

      t.boolean :deleted

      t.timestamps
    end
  end

Set an operator in some filter

  def set_operator
    RecordWithOperator.operator = current_user
  end

Create a new note object:

 note = Note.create(:body => "This is my first note.")
 # note.operator will be current_user
 # note.created_by will be current_user.id

Get note objects:

 notes = Note.all
 # notes.first.operator will be current_user

Create note's comments:

 note = Note.find(params[:id])
 note.comments.create!(:body => params[:comment_body])
 # comment.operator will be current_user
 # comment.created_by will be current_user.id

== Configuration

You can change the operator's class name by setting RecordWithOperator.config[:operator_class_name]. (It was renamed from :user_class_name. )
The default is 'User'.

Note that it is required to change this value before your model classes are loaded.
For example, you can write the code under config/initializers.

  RecordWithOperator.config[:operator_class_name] = "AdminUser"

It's also possible to modify options for creator/updater/deleter associations.
For example, in the case you use acts_as_paranoid and want to get creator/updater/deleter even if they are deleted,
the configuration will be look like this.

  RecordWithOperator.config[:operator_association_options] = {:with_deleted => true}

You can cange created_by, updated_by, deleted_by column name by changing RecordWithOperator.config with keys :creator_column, :updater_column and :deleter_column.

The association names (such as creator, updater and deleter) can not be changed in this version.

Copyright (c) 2009-2013 Yasuko Ohba, released under the MIT license
